okay this is a good one chat
so how do i stop lusting over a streamer
i work for
hi dr kane chat i have a crush or lust
for a very attractive streamer i'm
leaning more towards lust as most of my
thoughts for her are sexual rather than
fantasy of being in a relationship
this fac
infatuation has led me to constantly
wanting her attention and getting
jealous when i don't get it or she gives
it to someone else such as her boyfriend
i know usually in this situation you
step away and distance yourself and use
other activities to distract yourself
but i'm her editor so i'm quite
literally exchanging dms editing and
photoshopping images and videos of her
hours every day
it's not something i can just quit or
focus less on as she pays me
significantly more than average since
she is a successful streamer youtuber
i mean sorry for the alt account had to
use it since a lot of community members
would recognize my main account
so let's just kind of quickly review
what this uh post is sort of about so
there's someone who
seems like they're a successful youtube
editor or you know photoshopper or
whatever their editor
and they have a work relationship with a
very attractive streamer
um
who seems to be female and they're
having kind of lustful thoughts for this
person and they're trying to figure out
you know how to stop lusting for this
person
so there are a couple of important
points here to think about so first of
all this is very common right so the
first thing to understand is that
parasocial relationships are a growing
factor in our society so what i mean by
parasocial relationships is you know
like these like relationships to a
certain degree with streamers youtubers
etc
um but it's not just a parasocial
relationship right this is like older
than that like people have been lusting
over their work colleagues since you
know there has been work in since the
dawn of time
so there are a couple of important
points here the first thing is that you
know if you're in this situation and you
find yourself lusting over someone
um the first thing that you need to do
is be honest with yourself so this
person is saying all i experience is
lust i don't really i'm not interested
in a relationship but if you really pay
attention to some of the the posts and
stuff like that it seems like they also
feel jealous when
said streamer is like spending time with
their boyfriend
so it seems like if you really are
honest with yourself there's more there
than lust right so if you're feeling
like jealous or like
upset if this person is doing more than
potentially
you know
then
you have to be a little bit careful
about that
the second thing to think about is that
you know if all you feel is lost
jealousy is not necessarily like an
appropriate emotion
and what i mean by that is that like if
all you feel is lost it shouldn't
theoretically matter to you whether like
this person is engaging in sexual
activity with other people because all
you want is sexual activity with the
person
so if you you know are concerned that
this person is like having sex with
someone else and you don't want that to
happen then the the truth is that you
probably feel more than just lust so
then the question becomes like why is
lust the primary thing that you
experience and that's because i think
lust is the safest feeling for people in
this situation to have
right lust is the feeling that is the
most justifiable it's the one that
actually hurts the least right i'm just
horny like that's all it's just like
it's a physical thing so it's actually
like a very protective
diagnosis as opposed to i'm in love with
this person so sometimes remember that
the mind will tell you a lie to try to
protect you and one of the most common
lies that it tells you is like
when you feel like there's no
opportunity for you to have a
relationship with someone your mind will
tell you oh you're just you're just
horny that's it and because that becomes
like a lot more like internally
tolerable so the truth is that you may
actually have more feelings for this
person than just lust it's a little bit
unclear
to me but i would seriously explore
those and that'll become important in a
second because
you know
so the next thing is that unless you
really understand how you feel in the
spectrum and depth of your feelings
dealing with them is going to be
difficult because if you diagnose this
as a problem of lust
and you try to fix a problem of lust but
the truth is that there's like
suppressed feelings that go beyond lust
your solutions may not work right so if
you misdiagnose the problem you're not
going to be able to treat it well so the
first thing that you need to do is be
honest with yourself
the next thing that you need to be
careful about so this goes for everyone
out there
so a lot of times we know what we need
to do
but there's a reason that we can't do it
right so this person says
i know that the right answer here is to
distance myself but
i can't
right and that's a very very dangerous
way of thinking so anytime our mind is
resistant to something
what it actually does is provides us
with a very good logical reason that
gives us an excuse
to not do what we need to do so when i
really need to do something and i really
don't want to do something my mind will
subconsciously give me a really good
excuse so that i don't do it
right and what this person is saying i'm
a successful editor i get paid above
average
and so i can't leave my job right i have
to say oh that's too bad that you have
to stay and then internally some part of
you that wants to be closer to this
person that wants to like you know
there's probably some amount of
gratification that this very successful
and attractive youtube streamers like
sending you like you have such an
intimate relationship with them they
rely on you you're a part of their life
you know you're responsible for their
success they owe you in some way you
also get to see slices of this person's
life that other people don't see there's
a certain intimacy there right there's
all the plebs who get to see the
photoshopped images and you're the one
that gets to see like the real images
there's a lot of like thoughts there
that are that are kind of interesting
there's a lot of actually intimacy and
closeness in the relationship
which there's a part of you that
probably doesn't want to give up
and so because like there's a lot of
logical answers here even if you get
paid above market rate like if you work
with this streamer and i'm pretty sure
you apply for jobs with other streamers
like if you're a successful editor for a
successful streamer that probably allows
you to you know do that kind of work for
other people at a comparable pla pay
but what i'm sort of noticing in this
situation and this is for all of you
guys is like
if you know what the right answer is and
your mind says but i can't do it because
of this other reason and it provides
some kind of justification be careful
because that's a sign of resistance
remember that the mind when it has a
secret desire and this is where like you
have to properly diagnose it as long as
that desire is secret it will fight
against you in terms of like creating
some kind of artificial resistance
i don't i mean maybe this person is
right maybe they get paid an
inappropriate amount and it is sort of a
challenge for them but that too i would
encourage you to think long and hard
like just because you get paid less
somewhere else
doesn't mean that it isn't like a
bad idea for you to switch jobs right so
remember that what you pay for with
financial security can sometimes be like
mental health or stalling in other parts
of your life
like sure you can get paid more if you
work 80 hours a week but is that
actually like a trade that you want to
make
the first thing that you need to do is
be honest with yourself and recognize is
this just lust or is it more than lust
and the challenge there is that
accepting that it's more than lust will
probably be more painful because
the actual opportunity for a real
relationship may be smaller than like
just lost
the second thing to do is be aware of
your internal resistance
and if you know what the right answer is
and your mind says but you can't do the
right answer because
of x y z be careful about that can you
really not do that
is the resistance really real like that
may actually be true but you can
probably still you know exert some
degree of
influence or change or switch your jobs
and the third thing to consider is like
space in your life
so oftentimes you know the people the
reason that people get stuck in a
particular relationship is because they
don't create the space in their lives
for an alternative so i'd be really
curious whether this person is in a
relationship of their own right so are
you are you single are you in a
relationship
this is where we kind of get into issues
of like emotional affairs and stuff like
that
um or even like you know having
persistent sexual thoughts about someone
who's like outside of your
who your relationship is with
so i'd really be curious about like the
empty spaces of your life so generally
speaking when our when our when we have
some emptiness in our life
we tend to fill it in with some kind of
like
approximation of the real thing
right this is like one of these like you
know when i'm super lonely and like i i
buy like a a pillow that's shaped like
another human and i cuddle that that
pillow
it sort of like is an approximation of
the real thing and it can bring me some
kind of comfort
but it never really fills up the void so
we also see this in like substance use
right so when i feel like lonely and bad
about myself i feel like empty on the
inside and so i can seek oblivion
through drugs and like it'll sort of
fill things up kind of right so like if
i let's say i like do a lot of coke and
i go to a party and i like have a blast
and i get laid and stuff like that and
so like i fill up you know the emptiness
in my soul with like
dopamine
and enjoyment and pleasure but it never
truly fills it up
and what i found a lot of times is when
when we're empty on the inside it can be
really really hard to actually get rid
of the thing that like is holding us
back
so when i feel super empty inside like
getting sober is actually the hardest
thing
when you feel like very lonely on the
inside sometimes stepping away from some
of these like parasocial or work
relationships is actually the hardest
thing and this is unfortunate but we're
going to kind of take a quick tangent
into like yogic thinking
but anytime we feel empty inside are we
try to fill that emptiness through the
indriyas or the sense organs so this is
where like if you feel like alone or you
feel
you know like you're not loved or that
you want a fulfilling relationship or
even if you want to get laid
and you bombard your senses with like
images of this particular person
your your brain is going to be like oh
we're empty over here we're getting all
of this like sensory input let's try to
fill up that input over here
and this is where you know if you really
want like if you really want to fill
this thing up you actually have to get
rid of like the sensory inputs
so this is where sometimes you know
people that i'll work with like they
keep on breaking up with each other and
then getting back together and the
reason for that is because there's not
actually space in their life for a new
relationship right so when when you
break up with someone and then you're
kind of like like then you're broken up
and then you start like texting them
again and stuff like that out of habits
and you kind of hang out with them and
stuff like that as long as you're
socializing with that person there's not
going to be space in your life for
another person so it's really important
to be careful about the way that you
know you have a void and the way that
you fill it up through certain sensory
organs or experiences
and try really hard to create the space
in your life for someone else to move in
because what i'm kind of noticing in
this situation is that there's like
that thoughts of this particular
streamer or youtuber like you have so
much sensory input they're like entering
your life so much
that there isn't space for you to like
lust after someone else right because
all of your lust is already occupied by
this person and as long as your sense
organs are being bombarded by these
photoshop images for hours and hours and
hours a day
then you're like you know that's gonna
like occupy your lust
so i'd say um
you know and the last thing to kind of
think a little bit about is just
acceptance and grief so this is hard but
one of the
one of the skills that we're never
taught
which i think is one of the most
important skills to learn is how to
grieve
so the last thing that this person could
do is like grieve this loss and what do
i mean by this loss
it could be the the possibility that um
you know you'll never have a sexual
relationship with this person so you
have to kind of like let that go like
except hey it's never going to happen
the other thing that you could do is is
grieve the loss of the the lack of a
true relationship that you have a
professional relationship and that maybe
you want more than lust and you just
have to like learn how to grieve right
like you can't ignore it you have to
accept that it's there and this goes
back to number one which is like be
honest with yourself
and then like grieve it so you have to
like mourn it right so you have to like
sit there and think about all the things
that you want
and accept and think about how you're
never going to get them
and as you go through that process of
grief even though it's really really
painful because you're going to be
uncovering all of your coping mechanisms
and you're going to feel like naked and
like terrified and pathetic
as you go through that process the good
news is all of that negative energy all
of that negative emotion that you're
suppressing
is actually gonna like come out it'll
overwhelm you for a while but then it'll
actually start to subside and then
hopefully you'll have the space to take
kind of the right steps forward
so unfortunately this is something that
we see very commonly so this is a case
of
you know someone who's close to
like a streamer or youtuber or something
like that has something of a
professional relationship
maybe a parasocial relationship and it's
really challenging because it's
happening more and more and more so like
basically how do you deal with
you know lusting over someone that you
may not be able to have a relationship
with
and it comes down to first of all being
honest with yourself because there may
be more there than lust and sometimes
what our mind does is like tries to give
us the most manageable version of our
feelings so it would be really really
hard for you to say i'm in love with
this person so instead your mind is like
oh you're just horny don't worry about
it just horniness it's like a physical
thing comes from the scrotum no big deal
the next thing that you have to do is be
careful about your resistance because a
lot of times in this situation we know
exactly what we need to do but then our
mind since it really doesn't want to
leave will tell us oh you can't do what
is good for you because of this reason
but the more that you look at that
reason the more you realize actually
like you can do something about it right
this person could try to apply for being
an editor for like they're they're like
literally
10 000
streamers or youtubers out there that
are relatively successful right there's
so many different platforms there's
instagram there's facebook there's
youtube there's twitch
and if you have a resume where you've
helped this person like and you put on
your resume i started editing when this
person was this big now they're this big
you know i'm very professional like i
help people like succeed and put forward
the best best content there will people
there will be people who will hire you
you just have to apply for enough jobs
but this person says but i can't so be
careful about your internal resistance
because chances are there's a
subconscious feeling that's
driving you and telling you logically
you can't leave because it doesn't want
to leave so it'll provide for you the
best argument that it can to keep you
there
next thing to kind of think a little bit
about is making sure that there's space
in your life so sometimes when we have
these kind of relationships with people
that are sort of like infatuations or
lust or parasocial the reason that we
can't get free of them is because we
don't have something else in our life to
lean on
so
um you know be a little bit careful
about creating the space in your life so
that you can kind of move from
you know this unhealthy relationship to
a healthy relationship
and a lot of times
when we feel like an emptiness inside
we'll fill up that emptiness through our
sense organs so as long as you feel
empty inside and you're editing these
pictures that's going to be like a
really bad combination
the last thing you have to learn how to
do is you have to learn how to mourn you
have to learn how to grieve
and and grieve this relationship because
there could have been something that was
super awesome right like if you like
really sit down and think about the
fantasy how awesome would it be to
be this person's editor and to be in a
romantic relationship with her right to
be like an integral part of their
success for you all to be working
together to create this brand and how
awesome would it be if like you guys
like work together and like had a
personal relationship right there's a
reason why a lot of people engage in
personal relationships like in the
workplace you have power couples um you
know i i
i'm speaking from kind of personal
experience in terms of they're like a
lot of advantages and a lot of
attractive things
about working with someone who you're
engaged in a personal relationship with
i think 90 of the time it's a mess and
usually unhealthy
but that doesn't make it any less
attractive right it's so awesome to be
in that ten percent so if you are in
this kind of situation you know my
condolences i think um you also may want
to think a little bit about working with
someone to kind of work through these
feelings because it can be really hard
to manage on your own your mind is a
tricky tricky thing
and so will do its best to keep you from
understanding like what's actually going
on right it's doing that to protect you
so working with a coach or working with
um you know a therapist or something
like that even having like a long talk
with someone that you can really confide
in
is really really important that's part
of what i think is the advantage of like
a coach or a therapist is that you know
they're they're like they're not
invested in anything except for you
right they're there for you you can be
honest with them about the deep and
embarrassing thoughts they may pick it
up and they ask you questions that are
like hard for you to like figure out on
your own
so you can always do something like that
make sense
oh yeah sorry the the notification is
wrong for squid game
is it good to address this with the
streamer i would say you shouldn't
address things
with the streamer yet right so when you
like so here's it's a really good
question so like if i'm lusting over
someone that at work like
what should i do
you should settle your own feelings
first before talking to them
so you have to understand exactly what
you feel and you also have to understand
the kind of position you're putting them
in
i think that generally speaking like
honesty and authenticity is like a good
thing to have but you also have to
recognize that like that may place a
burden on someone else
and part of the reason there is that
like the reason this is so bewildering
for the other person is because you've
constructed like
like you've spent
a thousand hours thinking about this
whereas like the streamer will have
spent
maybe zero
so when you kind of like present them
with a conversation they're gonna feel
like really shocked and generally
speaking it's gonna be hard for them to
respond in a positive way
so you know you're kind of like it's
hard to describe but you're sort of like
you've got one leg up on them because
you've been thinking about it for a long
time and it may be like completely new
to them
so i think a good example of this is um
i saw a post recently in in the
polyamory subreddit
about
you know someone was kind of saying like
someone like one partner had been like
working with paulie feelings for like
five years
and then like the other partner they'd
been in a monogamous relationship and so
then like you know the partner who
thought their polly was like hey this is
how i feel
you know and then like a month later
they're like so can i can we open up the
relationship and then like the other
person was like
you've been thinking about this for five
years i've been processing it for one
month like i need more time
and so you have to remember that you can
do a lot of processing internally but
anytime you have a conversation with
someone you have to give them time to
process
i do think in a perfect world it's
actually okay and maybe even
professional to share with the streamer
you know why you're leaving and when you
ask for like a reference or something
like that you can say hey it's kind of
weird but like for some reason like my
mind is going into weird places about
this relationship it's not genuinely how
i feel about you and like you know i
respect you a lot as a professional
colleague and i'm just having trouble
dealing with these things i don't expect
you to do anything about it
and i definitely don't want to put you
in an awkward circumstance
so um i think the best thing for me to
do is actually leave like i'll help you
find a replacement absolutely i'd really
appreciate a reference um i'm still like
you know i still care about you a lot as
a professional colleague i hope you do
really well but just for personal
reasons i think i have to you know step
away from this job
is that cool and just be like kind of
professional about it and say like hey
you know like it's just getting weird to
be like editing your pictures all the
time
so
you can always have a conversation like
that but i'd say be careful about it you
know and then the other thing is that if
you want to go for love you can always
confess your feelings and see what
happens but that's probably not going to
end well